How to SCSS in Tangent  <!-- omit in toc -->
======================

## Sections  <!-- omit in toc -->
- [A Design Token First Approach](#a-design-token-first-approach)
- [SCSS Architecture](#scss-architecture)
- [Folder Guidelines](#folder-guidelines)
- [Adopting the Modular Approach](#adopting-the-modular-approach)
- [You can still use Bootstrap if you want to](#you-can-still-use-bootstrap-if-you-want-to)
- [CSS Reset](#css-reset)
- [Sensible Default Styles](#sensible-default-styles)
- [Block-Specific Styles](#block-specific-styles)
- [Included Utilities](#included-utilities)
- [Included Mixins](#included-mixins)
- [Mobile-first Responsive Styles](#mobile-first-responsive-styles)


## A Design Token First Approach

Since Tangent is a hybrid theme that takes full advantage of `theme.json`, all styles work in concert with the `theme.json` file. All [design tokens](https://piccalil.li/tutorial/what-are-design-tokens/) (variables, constants, fonts, colors, etc) should be defined in `theme.json`. This makes these design tokens available globally throughout the WordPress front-end and accessible through [CSS Custom Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties) generated by WordPress.

See [the `theme-json` README](../theme-json/README.md) for more information on how to set design tokens in `theme.json`.

## SCSS Architecture

The `scss` architecture in Tangent is inspired by the 7-1 Pattern in [Sass Guidelines Style Guide](https://sass-guidelin.es/), but instead of one root level file, we have two: `global.scss` and `editor.scss`.

1. `global.scss` is enqueued on the front-end everywhere. All styles excluding your block-specific styles should be enqueued here.
2. `editor.scss` is enqueued in the Block Editor. Typically you'll want all your files and folders included in this file.

### Folders <!-- omit in toc -->

The `scss` is divided up into the following 7 folders:

1. `abstracts/` - where you gather your tools and helpers; functions, mixins, variables, those should all be placed in this folder.
2. `base/` - this folder is where your base level styles live. All styles affecting HTML elements will typically live here. Think input styles for your forms, heading styles, a reset stylesheet, etc. In other words, these are your _global_ styles.
3. `blocks/` - this is where your block-specific styles live. This is a special folder, more on this in a later section.
4. `layout/` - this is where styles for the major sections of your website live. Think your header, footer, sidebar, article layout, navigation, etc.
5. `utilities/` - this folder is made up of files that do a specific thing. For example, a class for visually hiding elements. These are utility classes you can pull into other files as needed. Each utility file will typically only contain one or two classes.
6. `pages/` - a place to house bespoke page designs, think login pages, dasboard, custom hand-coded pages.
7. `vendors/` - this is where stylesheets from any third-party sources live.

## Folder Guidelines

Each folder should have an `index.scss` file that pulls in its partials using the `@forward` rule.

```scss
@forward "variables";
@forward "functions";
@forward "mixins";
```

In the `editor.scss` and `global.scss` files you can import entire folders like so:

```scss
@use 'folderName';
```

## Adopting the Modular Approach

The old `@import` directive is on its way out within SCSS, and in its stead we have `@use` and `@forward`. This allows us to automatically namespace our partials and easily track where what is coming from. Your variables, mixins, functions, and other helpers are no longer available in the global namespace by default.

There are a lot of advantages to the new modular SCSS system, [this CSS-Tricks article](https://css-tricks.com/introducing-sass-modules/) will get you started, but we've listed two of the key advantages below.

### No More Prefixes <!-- omit in toc -->

On the outset, this adds a little extra work. You now have to import a partial (called a _module_) into every partial you want to use it in, with either the `@forward` or (the more likely) `@use` directive. To workaround this, many people (and CSS frameworks) will often prefix their functions and variables (think the `bs` prefix Bootstrap uses in their CSS Custom Properties for example). However, the new modular approach means we no longer need to do that, and we always know where our variables, mixins, or other classes are coming in from.

### Improved Performance <!-- omit in toc -->

Regardless of how many times a module is included in a partial, it only gets loaded _once_ during the compilation process, this speeds up the compiling process, reduces conflicts, and avoids duplications. This is especially noticeable as your styles grow more complex and have a bigger codebase.

## You can still use Bootstrap if you want to

Unlike Understrap, Tangent doesn't include Bootstrap out of the box, and strives to help you create lean styles that work in concert with WordPress Core and the new Block Editor. However, you can still import Bootstrap into Tangent if you prefer, or any other CSS Framework that catches your eye. Use the tools that make the most sense for your specific project.

## CSS Reset

## Sensible Default Styles

## Block-Specific Styles

## Included Utilities

## Included Mixins
## Mobile-first Responsive Styles
